---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: 'What is Cryptocurrency ?'
title: 'What is Cryptocurrency ?'
---
# What is Cryptocurrency ?

## Definition

A cryptocurrency (or crypto currency) is a medium of exchange using cryptography to secure the transactions and to control the creation of new units Cryptocurrencies are a subset of alternative currencies, or specifically of digital currencies.

Bitcoin became the first decentralized cryptocurrency in 2009. Since then, numerous cryptocurrencies have been created. These are frequently called altcoins, as a blend of bitcoin alternative.

## How does it work ?

Most cryptocurrencies (aside from a select few) work by operating on a blockchain. Essentially, a blockchain is a network of many computers around the world that pool together computing power to validate the network operations.

As a part of the mining process, the first one to solve a puzzle gets a reward for helping the network function. This is called mining. Mining is necessary for putting more of any given asset into circulation from its related maximum supply. Blockchain helps decentralize assets, holding significant security benefits over centralized systems with one point of failure.

Blockchains typically function via **Proof-of-Work (PoW)** or **Proof-of-Stake (PoS)** consensus algorithms.

* **PoW:** operates based on miners, who often designate specific computing machines for the process.

* **PoS:** runs on staking. In the staking system, rewards are distributed to help run the network by holding assets in certain designated wallets.

## Vericonomy Vision

Currently digital currencies face the impractical task of trying to be both a quick and efficient currency while also maintaining integrity as a secure store of value.

**VeriCoin** and **Verium Reserve** were developed to address this issue by leveraging two different but independently distinct types of blockchains. When we merge these two **unique** blockchains together, we will form an entirely new scalable ecosystem that we refer to as [**Binary-Chain**](/general/intro#binary-chain).

Using the [**Binary-Chain**](/general/intro#binary-chain) will further increase the fast transaction speeds of **VeriCoin** while progressively securing the store of value generated by **Verium**.

The two specialized chains embody two specific technologies that when coupled, will exponentially enhance the best of both technologies.

By integrating **VeriCoin’s** "Proof-of-Stake-Time" protocol and **Verium’s** "Proof-of-Work-Time" protocol into a symbiotic, groundbreaking and innovative set of financial tools, the Binary-Chain will enable users and merchants to transact, trade and/or create completely on-chain without depending on any third party or secondary layer solution.
